Final Project
DATA1010 - Introduction to Data Science
Spring 2026
Final Project Submission Guideline
Submission and deadline
Each group must preparefour items:
1. One written report (PDF)
2. One program package (Python notebook,.ipynb/ GitHub repository)
3. One presentation slide (PDF or PowerPoint)
4. One poster (PDF)
Deadline:all items (written report, code package, slides, and poster) must be submitted to
Canvasby 23:59 on Monday, 1 June 2026.
Written report
•Format.The report must be in PDF format, with maximum6 pages(including ref-
erences and contribution table). The report must be readable when printed (recom-
mended: A4 size, standard margins, 11–12 pt font size).
•Content.The report must contain clear citations and references for any external sources
used, including generative AI. Any graphs or figures must contain proper titles, labels,
and descriptions.
•Structure.The report should follow the sample given in Appendix A. In particular, it
must contain theContribution declarationtable.
Program package
•Format (choose one option).
– Option A: Python notebook (.ipynb).
* Upload one copy to Canvas.
* Upload one copy to Google Colab and insert the Colab link into the written
report.
* Ensure the link is accessible to instructors until your final grades are released.
– Option B: GitHub repository.
* Upload one copy (.zip) to Canvas.
* Insert the repo link into the written report.
* Ensure the link is accessible to instructors until your final grades are released.
•Content.The code must include all computations, experiments, and results reported
in the written report.
•Structure.Organize the code into clearly labeled sections corresponding to each ques-
tion.
Presentation slide
•Format.The slide must be in either PDF or PowerPoint format.
•Content.Focus on data collecting+processing, methodology, and experiment results.
•Structure.Divide the presentation into sections by question.
Poster
•Format.The poster must be in 1 page A0, portrait, and PDF format.
•Content.Summarize the dataset, methodology, and key results.
DATA1010- Introduction to Data Science page 1 of 6

Other notes
It is strongly recommended to begin the project as early as possible. For any questions or
clarifications, contact the instructorby 23:59 on Thursday, 28 May 2026.
Update
Any changes will be posted here.
DATA1010- Introduction to Data Science page 2 of 6

Appendix A: Question sheet
In this final project, each group will collect a practical, real-world dataset and analyze it using
both supervised learning and unsupervised learning techniques.
1. Task 1: Data Collection and Data Processing
Each group must collect a real dataset (self-collected;no online public datasets allowed).
The dataset must meet the following criteria:
•01 binary target variable (to be used in supervised learning).
•At least 04 additional features (to be used in both supervised and unsupervised learn-
ing).
•At least 50 valid training samples and another 50 valid testing samplesafterdata
cleaning.
•The cleaned dataset must be split equally into a training set and a testing set.
Your written report must include:
•Data collection methods: Describe how the data was collected (e.g., in-person or online
form, interview, duration, population/sampling method, etc.)
•Data privacy considerations: Explain how you handled sensitive information and en-
sured participant privacy and data security
•Data processing: Describe how you handled missing or erroneous values, normaliza-
tion, feature encoding, and any preprocessing techniques used
•Data visualization: Provide visualizations that describe feature distributions, relation-
ships, and correlations (e.g., histograms, scatter plots, correlation heatmaps)
2. Task 2: Supervised learning
Use the collected dataset to predict the binary target variable using two classification mod-
els.
Required steps and content for the report:
•Research question: what are you trying to predict/analyze/control?
•Model implementation: Apply both Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machine
(SVM)
•Model evaluation: Report and compare performance on the training and testing sets
using appropriate metrics (e.g., accuracy, precision, loss/error values)
•Analysis: Interpret and explain your results. Discuss which model performed better and
why.
3. Task 3: Unsupervised learning
Explore patterns and groupings within your dataset using clustering techniques.
Required steps and content for the report:
•Research question: what are you trying to predict/analyze/control?
•Model implementation: Apply K-Means clustering on the dataset (excluding the binary
target variable)
•Evaluation: Report clustering results and relevant metrics (e.g., loss, number of clusters)
•Analysis: Visualize and interpret the clusters. Explain the choice of number of clusterk.
Explain if the clusters align with any known patterns or segments in your data.
DATA1010- Introduction to Data Science page 3 of 6

Appendix B: Written Report sample
DATA1010 Final Project: Group ##
Member list:
No. Name Student ID Email
1 Jane Doe V202310000 Jane.d@email
2 John Doe V202310001 John.d@email
. . .
Link to Google Colab:[Insert link here]
1. Introduction, Data Collection and Data Processing
In this project, we aim to study students’ habits based on their physical and lifestyle fea-
tures. . .
We collected data in person using . . . , and data was collected from . . . to . . .
The questionnaires included 6 questions: Q1: . . . , Q2: . . . , etc.
The target binary variable isGender(0/1), features areAge(years old),Height(cm), . . .
Summary of data processing: . . .
Visualization: . . .
2. Supervised Learning
We apply supervised learning models: Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machine
(SVM) to predict gender.
These two models are described as follows. . .
We report the accuracy of these models as follows. . .
We observed that SVM slightly outperformed logistic regression. One of the reasons is . . .
3. Unsupervised Learning
We applied K-Means clustering to cluster students. We choosek= 2because . . .
We report the numerical performance and accuracy as follows. . .
The clusters mostly separated male and female participants, however. . .
4. References
5. Contribution declaration
Task Part Sub-task Tom Rose Kate Bob
1 Write report Design questionnaires ✓✓ ✓ ✓
1 Write report Clean data ✓ ✓
. . .
1 Write code Visualize histogram ✓
1 Write code Convert data ✓
. . .
1 Prepare slide Prepare slide ✓ ✓
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: Use✓to indicate contributors, use✓✓to indicate student in charge (who will
answer Q&A about that sub-task). Each sub-task (row) selects at most 3 student, and each
student is in charge at at least 1 sub-task.
DATA1010- Introduction to Data Science page 4 of 6

Appendix C: Grade Rubric of Written Report and Program Package
Content Full Level of Performance
Unsatisfactory Satisfactory Excellent
(criteria)
Missing required sec-
tions, unclear writ-
ing/structure, missing
citations/references, or
weak/incorrect interpreta-
tion of results.
Complete structure with
clear writing and basic
explanations; citations
and figures mostly correct;
minor issues may be ac-
ceptable.
Complete, well-organized,
and clearly written; strong
interpretation/discussion;
figures and citations are
thorough and professional.
MUST include extra ex-
ploration, analysis and
optimization instead of only
a single accuracy or loss
value.
Written Report
Task 1 30 0/5/10/15 20/25 30
Task 2 30 0/5/10/15 20/25 30
Task 3 30 0/5/10/15 20/25 30
(criteria)
Code is missing/incorrect,
does not run end-to-end,
or results are not repro-
ducible/traceable to the re-
port.
Runs and reproduces re-
ported results; code is
reasonably organized into
sections with basic com-
ments/outputs.
Clean, well-structured, and
reproducible; clear section-
ing and documentation;
includes sanity checks and
thoughtful extra explo-
ration where appropriate.
Program Package
Code 10 0/2/4/6 8 10
All 100 ≤50 ≤83 ≤100
* Note:
•The above rubric applies to the entire group. All group members will typically receive the same grade. However, individual member(s) who demonstrate significant or
exceptional contributions may be considered for bonus points at the instructor’s discretion. Bonus points, ranging from 1 to 5 (on a 100-point scale), are not guaranteed
and may involve additional interview questions. They are awarded selectively and not necessarily granted to every group or every project.
•Any late/missing submissions without justification will result in 0 points for the entire group.
•Students who do not contribute to the project or are irresponsible for assigned tasks are subject to deductions, up to−100. This includes not coming to class/lab to work
with group members, not being reachable during the project period, not accepting any task, or not completing tasks that appear in the attached contribution table
under their name.
DATA1010 - Introduction to Data Science page 5 of 6

Appendix D: Grade Rubric of Presentation Day
Content Full Level of Performance
Unsatisfactory Satisfactory Excellent
Materials
(criteria)
Missing required
components; un-
clear/incorrect con-
tent; poor readabil-
ity/organization; fig-
ures/tables are unla-
beled or misleading.
Covers required content
with mostly correct re-
sults and clear organi-
zation; visuals are read-
able with minor issues.
Polished and pro-
fessional; clear and
accurate narrative;
strong visuals; insight-
ful interpretation and
takeaways.
Poster 25 0/5/10/15 18/20 25
Slides 25 0/5/10/15 18/20 25
Oral Presentation and Interview
(criteria)
Unclear delivery; poor
time management;
cannot explain meth-
ods/results; major issues
answering questions.
Mostly clear delivery
and pacing; explains
core ideas and results;
answers most questions
adequately.
Confident, well-paced
delivery; strong com-
mand of meth-
ods/results; engages
audience; answers
questions thoughtfully
and accurately.
Oral presentation 25 0/5/10/15 18/20 25
Interview / Q&A 25 0/5/10/15 18/20 25
All 100 ≤60 ≤80 ≤100
* Note:
•The above rubric applies to the entire group. All group members will typically receive the same grade for poster/slides and the oral presentation.
•Interview/Q&A questions may be directed to individual members. If a member cannot answer questions about the project adequately, individual deductions may be
applied at the instructor’s discretion.
DATA1010 - Introduction to Data Science page 6 of 6